README.md, before:

# Ballista: Distributed Compute Platform

[![License][license-badge]][license-url]
[![Crates.io][crates-badge]][crates-url]
[![Gitter Chat][gitter-badge]][gitter-url]
[![Discord chat][discord-badge]][discord-url]

[license-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg
[license-url]: https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0
[crates-badge]: https://img.shields.io/crates/v/ballista.svg
[crates-url]: https://crates.io/crates/ballista
[discord-badge]: https://img.shields.io/discord/735486030626422884.svg?logo=discord&style=flat-square
[discord-url]: https://discord.gg/95PMxSk
[gitter-badge]: https://badges.gitter.im/ballista-rs/community.svg
[gitter-url]: https://gitter.im/ballista-rs/community

## Overview

Ballista is a distributed compute platform primarily implemented in Rust, using Apache Arrow as the memory model. It is 
built on an architecture that allows other programming languages to be supported as first-class citizens without paying
a penalty for serialization costs.

The foundational technologies in Ballista are:

- [Apache Arrow](https://arrow.apache.org/) memory model and compute kernels for efficient processing of data.
- [Apache Arrow Flight Protocol](https://arrow.apache.org/blog/2019/10/13/introducing-arrow-flight/) for efficient data transfer between processes.
- [Google Protocol Buffers](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers) for serializing query plans.
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) for packaging up executors along with user-defined code.

Ballista can be deployed in [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/), or as a standalone cluster using [etcd](https://etcd.io/) for discovery.

## Architecture

The following diagram highlights some of the integrations that will be possible with this unique architecture. Note 
that not all components shown here are available yet.

![Ballista Architecture Diagram](docs/ballista-architecture.png)

## How does this compare to Apache Spark?

Although Ballista is largely inspired by Apache Spark, there are some key differences.

- The choice of Rust as the main execution language means that memory usage is deterministic and avoids the overhead of 
GC pauses.
- Ballista is designed from the ground up to use columnar data, enabling a number of efficiencies such as vectorized 
processing (SIMD and GPU) and efficient compression. Although Spark does have some columnar support, it is still 
largely row-based today.
- The combination of Rust and Arrow provides excellent memory efficiency and memory usage can be 5x - 10x lower than 
Apache Spark in some cases, which means that more processing can fit on a single node, reducing the overhead of 
distributed compute.
- The use of Apache Arrow as the memory model and network protocol means that data can be exchanged between executors 
in any programming language with minimal serialization overhead.

## Example Rust Client

```rust
#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> Result<()> {
    
    let ctx = Context::remote("localhost", 50051, HashMap::new());

    let results = ctx
        .read_parquet("/path/to/data", None)?
        .aggregate(vec![col("passenger_count")], vec![max(col("fare_amount"))])?
        .collect()
        .await?;

    // print the results
    pretty::print_batches(&results)?;

    Ok(())
}
```

## Status

An alpha release of Ballista is now available, and we are working towards the full 0.3.0 release in August 2020. Please 
refer to the [user guide](https://ballistacompute.org/docs/) for instructions on using a released versions of Ballista. 

## Roadmap

We are now working on support for more complex operators, particularly joins, using the TPCH
benchmarks to drive requirements. The full roadmap is available [here](https://github.com/ballista-compute/ballista/milestones?direction=asc&sort=title&state=open).

## More Examples

The following examples should help illustrate the current capabilities of Ballista

- [TPC-H Benchmark](https://github.com/ballista-compute/ballista/tree/main/rust/examples/tpch)
- [Distributed query execution in Rust](https://github.com/ballista-compute/ballista/tree/main/rust/examples/distributed-query)
- [Rust bindings for Apache Spark](https://github.com/ballista-compute/ballista/tree/main/rust/examples/apache-spark-rust-bindings)

## Documentation

The [user guide](https://ballistacompute.org/docs/) is hosted at [https://ballistacompute.org](https://ballistacompute.org/), 
along with the [blog](https://ballistacompute.org/) where news and release notes are posted.

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for information on contributing to this project.

Commit message:

Update dev docs + batch size reporting (#282)

README.md, after:

# Ballista: Distributed Compute Platform

[![License][license-badge]][license-url]
[![Crates.io][crates-badge]][crates-url]
[![Gitter Chat][gitter-badge]][gitter-url]
[![Discord chat][discord-badge]][discord-url]

[license-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg
[license-url]: https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0
[crates-badge]: https://img.shields.io/crates/v/ballista.svg
[crates-url]: https://crates.io/crates/ballista
[discord-badge]: https://img.shields.io/discord/735486030626422884.svg?logo=discord&style=flat-square
[discord-url]: https://discord.gg/95PMxSk
[gitter-badge]: https://badges.gitter.im/ballista-rs/community.svg
[gitter-url]: https://gitter.im/ballista-rs/community

## Overview

Ballista is a distributed compute platform primarily implemented in Rust, using Apache Arrow as the memory model. It is 
built on an architecture that allows other programming languages to be supported as first-class citizens without paying
a penalty for serialization costs.

The foundational technologies in Ballista are:

- [Apache Arrow](https://arrow.apache.org/) memory model and compute kernels for efficient processing of data.
- [Apache Arrow Flight Protocol](https://arrow.apache.org/blog/2019/10/13/introducing-arrow-flight/) for efficient data transfer between processes.
- [Google Protocol Buffers](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers) for serializing query plans.
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) for packaging up executors along with user-defined code.

Ballista can be deployed in [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/), or as a standalone cluster using [etcd](https://etcd.io/) for discovery.

## Architecture

The following diagram highlights some of the integrations that will be possible with this unique architecture. Note 
that not all components shown here are available yet.

![Ballista Architecture Diagram](docs/ballista-architecture.png)

## How does this compare to Apache Spark?

Although Ballista is largely inspired by Apache Spark, there are some key differences.

- The choice of Rust as the main execution language means that memory usage is deterministic and avoids the overhead of 
GC pauses.
- Ballista is designed from the ground up to use columnar data, enabling a number of efficiencies such as vectorized 
processing (SIMD and GPU) and efficient compression. Although Spark does have some columnar support, it is still 
largely row-based today.
- The combination of Rust and Arrow provides excellent memory efficiency and memory usage can be 5x - 10x lower than 
Apache Spark in some cases, which means that more processing can fit on a single node, reducing the overhead of 
distributed compute.
- The use of Apache Arrow as the memory model and network protocol means that data can be exchanged between executors 
in any programming language with minimal serialization overhead.

## Example Rust Client

```rust
#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> Result<()> {
    
    let ctx = Context::remote("localhost", 50051, HashMap::new());

    let results = ctx
        .read_parquet("/path/to/data", None)?
        .aggregate(vec![col("passenger_count")], vec![max(col("fare_amount"))])?
        .collect()
        .await?;

    // print the results
    pretty::print_batches(&results)?;

    Ok(())
}
```

## Status

An alpha release of Ballista is now available, and we are working towards the full 0.3.0 release in August 2020. Please 
refer to the [user guide](https://ballistacompute.org/docs/) for instructions on using a released versions of Ballista. 

## Roadmap

We are now working on support for more complex operators, particularly joins, using the TPCH
benchmarks to drive requirements. The full roadmap is available [here](https://github.com/ballista-compute/ballista/milestones?direction=asc&sort=title&state=open).

## More Examples

The following examples should help illustrate the current capabilities of Ballista

- [TPC-H Benchmark](https://github.com/ballista-compute/ballista/tree/main/rust/examples/tpch)
- [Distributed query execution in Rust](https://github.com/ballista-compute/ballista/tree/main/rust/examples/distributed-query)
- [Rust bindings for Apache Spark](https://github.com/ballista-compute/ballista/tree/main/rust/examples/apache-spark-rust-bindings)

## Documentation

The [user guide](https://ballistacompute.org/docs/) is hosted at [https://ballistacompute.org](https://ballistacompute.org/), 
along with the [blog](https://ballistacompute.org/) where news and release notes are posted.

Developer documentation can be found in the [docs](docs/README.md) directory.

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for information on contributing to this project.
